
File Handling or File I/O

Collection related Datastructures : list,tuples,set,dict are used to store data temporarily

But we need to store our data permanently or persistent storage

We need to store our data for example : Bank transaction details.

It's a very common programming practice.

That's where file handling comes into picture -> where it becomes permanent.

1. Files
	* Helps to store only very less amount of data
	
2. Database
	* To Store huge amount of data
	* Used to store structured data ( Like excel files )
	
3. Big Data & Cloud platform
	The below given examples are for unstructured data 
		* Instagram posts -> per day it'll be post millions of post,
		* Youtube videos -> per day it'll gets updated millions of videos and shorts
	

Files -> To store our data permanently

Limitation : Very less amount of data will be stored.

Types of Files:

1. Text files / Character files
	Only characters and words will be there
	Ex : test.txt,new.py
	
2. Binary files
	Videos, Audios, Images
	Ex : test1.mp3, test2.mp4, pose.jpg
	

"To perform any operations on the file, first we need to open the file.
Once after completing our operation we need to close the file"	

Opening of the file:
--------------------

open()-> inbuilt function available in python

Parameters : Name of the file, operation mode (purpose)

Various modes of opening the file:
----------------------------------

1. r : read the file
Open an existing file for read operation
If the specified file is not available (FileNotFoundError)

2. w : write the file

Case 1: 
	- Open an existing file for write operation
	- If the specified file isn't available, it'll generate new file
	
Case 2:
	- Open an existing file for write operation
	- If the file contains data already means, it'll overwrites the existing data
	
3. a : append the file

Open an existing file for append operation
If the specified file isn't available, new file will be created.
If the file contains data already means, it'll append the data without deleting old data.	

4. r+ : read and write

If the specified file isn't already available we'll get FileNotFoundError
If the file is available but it contains some data then it overwrites data but not completely

5. w+ : write and read

If the specified file not available then new file will be created.
If the file is available but it contains some data then it overwrites data but not completely

6. a+ : append and read

If the specified file not available then new file will be created.
If the file available but contains some data: it'll append the data at the end

7. x : exclusive write operation

To perform write operation, the specified file shouldn't available.
If the file already exists we'll get (FileExistsError)
Compulsorily a new file will be created and it writes on that file.


Quick recap:
-----------

New files will be created on these modes : w,w+,a+,x

Files should be already available on these modes : r,r+

File shouldn't be there for this mode : x

Overwriting of existing data : w,w+,r+

Text and Binary files:
----------------------

The above given modes are applicable only for text files (r,w,a,r+,w+,a+,x)

We've two types of files (text and binary files)

For binary files the concepts are same but mode changes like (rb,wb,ab,rb+,wb+,ab+,xb)



"What happens if we don't specify any of the operation then it's read mode"


Properties of File Object:
-------------------------

file = open(name_of_the_file, operation_mode)

We can call them using various attributes and methods.
